In some searches, like those over an abstract network, it may be suffi- cient to just see the search unfold in order to comprehend and debug it. However, in most cases it is important to see the context of the search, that is to see the search shown atop a visualisation of the op- erating environment. For example, rather than just seeing the valid grid cells in a grid search (the positive space), we also want to know where the obstacles are (the negative space). This contextual informa- tion is very important to understand whether the behaviour of a given search algorithm is correct and meets our expectations. Here we assume the operating environment static and doesn’t change during a single pathfinding search. This is a typical assumption in pathfinding settings that do not explicitly model time (arguably, a majority). Working un- der this assumption allows us to treat the environment as a backdrop; i.e. we either use a suitable image or we convert the representation of the operating environment (a grid, a graph, a collection of polygonal obstacles, etc.) into one. For temporal domains, one may consider swapping different backdrops or layering extra visual elements on top of the background to represent temporary changes.
To make the system efficient, we have separated the creation of the backdrop image from the display of the search trace; i.e., users can visualise algorithms without seeing them performed on top of the operating environment. When the user wishes to view the operating environment too, they can upload an appropriate image as shown in Figure 1(??). The background image pans and zooms with the rest of the search visualisation.
