The nodeStructure array specifies drawing instructions that tell how a node should be visualised in different states. Each of the drawing instructions must use an available drawing primitive—circle, cell, line or polygon—specified via the type object. The variables object contains a set of named parameters whose values are populated from the corresponding variables object of each event in the event list. There are two optional properties. The drawPath property is a boolean denoting whether that drawing instruction should be used when drawing path from that node back to the source node. The persisted property is a boolean denoting whether the drawing instruction should be used when drawing the node throughout the entire trace versus only when it is being generated. Fill colour, stroke colour, and stroke width are not specified as part of these instructions since the visualiser uses colour and line weight to indicate node state. The system contains a text-based configuration file where the default colours and drawing parameters for visualisation can be modified.
The persisted property give a lot of flexibility for specifying the graphical representation of each node. For example, in a simple grid search algorithm, the nodeStructure would define a rectangle with x and y as variables. The persisted property would be set to true because we want the rectangle to be displayed during the whole search. The persisted property is also useful for nodes which have compli- cated drawings. For example, the Polyanaya algorithm (described in Section 8.3) requires composite drawing instructions involving a circle and a triangle. Only the circle part of the node is shown at all times while the triangle part is displayed only when nodes are first generated or when the node is selected for inspection by the user.
